If you found an abandoned mall in the middle
of a zombie apocalypse, what would you do?
In this How to Beat video, we’ll follow
the survivors, see if we can make better decisions,
and ultimately attempt to beat the zombie
hordes in, Dawn of the Dead.
If you think you have a better way, let me
know in the comments!
If you like these how to beat videos, consider
subscribing.
We start out following Nurse Ana, talking
to a doctor about a man who for some reason
needed a head X-Ray when he was only bitten
on the hand from a bar fight.
Suspicious.
Ana gets back home in the morning, and finds
her husband drinking beer and watching TV.
It seems like movie characters always find
a way to miss the emergency news, but back
in 2004 nobody had iPhones.
If the alert is only being broadcasted on
your TV, there’s a good chance you’re
gonna miss it and find out there’s an apocalypse
the hard way.
Louis wakes up to that rollerblader girl standing
in the bedroom doorway.
Who the hell is that nonchalant about waking
up to a random neighbor child standing in
their bedroom?
I’d be on full alert self-defense mode.
Talk about going 0-100 real quick, you were
just waking up from your peaceful slumber
and bam, some psycho child broke into your
house, ripped your husbands neck out with
her teeth, and now he’s bleeding out on
your bed seconds away from death.
This clarifies the saying, police are minutes
away when seconds count.
Time to clock back in Nurse Ana.
Looks like his carotid artery was ripped open,
meaning he has seconds before losing consciousness,
and will be dead in a few minutes.
There’s really nothing she can do, especially
since it was torn open by a bite.
Ana got super lucky that she was able to slip
out of his grasp, grab the keys, dive into
the bathroom while closing the door, and not
knock herself unconscious by banging her head
off the bathtub.
Having a window in your bathroom was also
super lucky.
Had that been a windowless bathroom, Ana’s
side to this story would be over.
As stupid as this was, I can’t 100% fault
her for it.
She just had her entire reality flipped upside
down and smashed into pieces within seconds.
It’s not hard to imagine that her mind might
attempt to return to normalcy considering
how unreal this situation is.
Ana narrowly escapes through the window by
blindly back kicking Louis in the head.
I guess adrenaline turns you into a Krav Maga,
Parkour expert.
Judging by the truck in the driveway, Louis
was probably a lineman who worked similar
late shifts, so I partially rescind my judgement
of his morning drinking.
See, some of you guys think I'd be more likely
to survive in these situations.
But this type of overthinking would get me
killed way too often.
Pretty much everything is fricked as far as
she can see.
Explosions, military helicopters, everyone
attacking each other.
Ana manages to not fumble and drop the keys
when getting into her car, which is impressive
considering your fine motor skills are going
to be severely impaired.
She finally gets the emergency radio broadcast.
They are providing instructions for evacuation
centers.
Yah, the government set up evacuation centers
in a few hours?
Bullcrap.
Realistically they’d just tell everyone
to shelter in place.
That’d be a reasonable thing to do, but
not for Ana anymore.
At least she doesn’t live in that nearby
city.
So all this chaos just happened to you, you
are sitting in your car and the radio is dispersing
hopium about an evacuation center that surely
is overrun.
Where do you go, what do you do.
Well, I definitely wouldn’t be stopping
for anyone or anything.
A car is the only thing between you and death
right now.
It’s a good thing she’s driving a Toyota
Corolla, very reliable car, apocalypse approved.
She lives in a suburban area near Milwaukee,
Wisconsin.
Since Ana has no family, and her house is
compromised, i’d say heading to the Horicon
National Wildlife Area which is 60 miles away
would be a good idea.
The onset of the apocalypse was extremely
fast, too fast for an evacuation to commence.
The local onramps and highways should still
be accessible.
She should have enough gas to get to Horicon,
but remember, 55-65 mph is the sweet spot
for fuel efficiency, you do not want to have
to get out and start pumping gas.
There will be far less people there, and you
could band up with hunters and fishers in
the area to hold out and obtain food.
The riskiest part is making it to the highway
and getting there without someone crashing
into you or shooting you to steal your car.
Stopping your car with zombies and people
all around you, and keeping your doors unlocked
probably wasn’t the smartest move.
Hope you can find a good samaritan or someone
else who did the same dumb shat you did so
you can jack their car..
I love how reporters are always continuing
to try to cover the disasters even when it
is indisputably clear that it’s the apocalypse,
nobody is watching TV anymore, and they need
to put the camera down and save themselves.
Ana wakes up after getting knocked unconscious
by the airbag.
I already like this guy, but he should have
already pumped the shotgun.
He either didn’t have a round in the chamber,
or he just pumped out a fresh round for no
reason.
Kenneth and Ana run into some other survivors
who open fire on them.
This is why you want to get away from other
people.
The shooter just gave away their position
to all zombies in at least a half mile radius.
He’s jumpy, trigger-happy, and inaccurate.
Not the kind of person I want to be traveling
with.
I’d also grab that bike in the background.
You can go 2-3 times as fast as if you were
running, and with far less energy.
Trying to run away from uninhibited sprinting
zombies is pretty much impossible.
The shooter’s girl is also pregnant, which
is 100% going to be an issue.
They mention that they are going to the mall
right across from them.
The YouTube channel, Zombie Survival Labs,
has a great video on the pros and cons of
holding up in a mall in a zombie apocalypse.
Basically, malls are terrible, because they
are amazing.
You have food, supplies, space, open vantage
points, security, and food and supplies in
nearby shops.
The problem is that everyone will be going
there or is already there, and the chances
that you will have first dibs on it and be
able to secure it before either zombies or
other survivors come busting in is slim to
none.
Our protagonists are on foot and surrounded,
so they don’t really have much of an option.
At minimum, getting off of ground level will
enable them to survive for now.
Obviously the first priority is to assess
the security of the place, and whether or
not it’s defensible.
It’s also probably a good idea to wash the
blood off your hands and face, you don’t
want to subconsciously itch your eye with
zombie blood on your fingers.
The windowed doors are not good, but as long
as they are locked it should give you time
to reinforce them.
Like we saw with Ana in the beginning, the
zombies are only going to break in if they
know you are there.
They need to get into the security office
to obtain the keys so they can lock the doors
while picking up weapons along the way.
Unfortunately, it doesn’t seem like there
is a gun store in this mall.
In the movie, they get pretty lucky that all
the doors are already locked.
If not, Andre would’ve been in trouble.
This was pure luck, and without going for
the keys, they couldn’t have ensured that
the doors were locked.
Once you have the keys, grab a map of the
building layout, or snag a fire/tornado map
to locate where the entrances are.
If there is only one set of keys you’ll
need to stay together.
But if there are multiple sets of keys, I'd
suggest splitting up into groups of two.
Ana and the cop.
Andre and Michael.
And have Luda hideout in a gated shop.
It’d also be good to grab some walkie talkies
so you can communicate with each other when
splitting up to lock the entrances.
Splitting us is important, because covering
ground quickly is a priority.
Zombies are everywhere, and if they make it
inside, it's game over no matter what.
Two person groups are important because two
people can overcome a rogue zombie much more
effectively than by themselves.
Main entrances need to be locked first, then
auxiliary ones.
The entire time i’d be keeping a backup
escape route in mind, though there aren’t
many options.
If a group of zombies burst into the store
from anywhere, they would only be able to
shoot a handful of them.
They don’t know the layout well, they can’t
risk running into a dead end, and with the
pregnant wife they can’t run far or fast.
If they need to run, their only options are
to hunker into a nearby store and drop the
security gate, which only helps them survive
that moment, but long term they are dead.
Locking all the entrances is their only chance.
Once all the entrances are locked up, you
need to turn the windowed doors and areas
into cover and concealment.
Concealment, so they don’t see you inside,
and cover, to prevent them from breaking in.
Painting or taping up curtains would be a
quick way to block the windows.
After blocking the windows, you’ll have
some breathing room which you can use to ensure
there aren’t zombies inside the mall.
I'd go room by room, sector by sector, and
clear the entire mall of zombies.
It’s not a huge mall, so it shouldn’t
take too long.
Making a loud noise to bait the zombies into
the open isn’t a bad tactic.
But you’ll still need to make sure a ninja
zombie isn’t lurking in the bathroom stall.
Once the building is secure, then you can
spend more time reinforcing and barricading
the doors, I'd find bicycle locks or chains
to wrap around the door handles.
Then use any wood or metal to place over the
doors or windows, then build in braces that
push up against it.
Next, start bringing food, water, ammo, medical,
and other necessary gear to the rooftop.
Ideally, you’d move everything you need
up to the roof.
Water is going to be the most immediate issue.
Setting up rain catchers on the roof is a
good idea.
Rainwater is pretty safe to drink, but you
can boil it if you want to be sure.
They also should collect as much water from
faucets as they can before the electricity
and pumps go out.
There should be a good supply of bottled water
in the mall too.
They should have enough water to avoid going
Bear Grylls mode, not that that’s an effective
survival tactic anyways.
The Rooftop is basically their Alamo.
There are only a couple entrances, and the
doors are made of steel.
These are boots on the ground zombozos.
They aren’t doing any wall climbing stuff
like in WWZ, so we don’t have to worry about
that.
It’s the most secure, defensible location
they have.
The rooftop also provides more escape options.
You can rope or ladder down from any side
of the building, evac choppers can spot you
and pick you up, your radios and SOS signals
will travel further, and you can better find
and communicate with any other potential survivors
in the vicinity.
Securing the stairwell leading to your rooftop
Alamo is also important.
Even just reinforcing the doors with door
jams and security bars will prevent them from
bursting through to the rooftop if they make
it inside the mall.
You might want to think of an evac plan, where
if the mall became compromised for whatever
reason, like a fire was started or Danny McBride
ate all your food, you aren’t completely
screwed.
My evac plan would be to drive to the Horicon
Wildlife Preserve.
To get there, I'd rig up an escape vehicle
from a mall bus or vehicle in the underground
parking lot.
I’ll talk more on the escape vehicle setup
later.
Once you got your sick zombie proof mall set
up, you’ll wanna figure out how much food
and water you need, versus what you have.
It’s reasonable to assume these zombies
have a rage virus rather than being spawns
from hell or something.
Which means they have realistic physiological
needs and respect the first law of thermodynamics.
Their bodies use energy which can be depleted,
they have to have a functioning circulatory,
respiratory system, and nervous system which
keeps them alive.
If this is the case, you don’t need much
food at all.
Which is a good thing, because let's be honest,
none of these people are Mark Watney.
Nobody will be setting up a sustainable potato
farm on the roof.
You don’t even need to wait for the zombies
to die of starvation.
They will all die of dehydration within days
from just standing out in the sun.
As long as you have some rain catchers and
Evian, you can put out a lawn chair and stay
sippin while they wilt away.
Then you can pick off the stragglers, start
scavenging and rebuilding society.
You will still have to be careful of zombies
that were chilling in cold dark areas, because
they could survive much longer without water.
To be safe, you might want to wait about a
month before raiding houses.
In addition to dehydration, zombies will also
likely die from infection.
The vast majority of zombies were initially
infected from bite wounds.
The severe infections and septic shock caused
by these wounds would eventually kill them.
The other good news is that the virus only
affects humans, so there will be plenty of
wildlife to hunt to satisfy your long term
food needs.
Let’s continue with what the characters
did.
Michael screws up badly by opening that door.
He should have stayed on the mission to lock
all the doors as priority numero uno, then
gone for help.
Haphazardly trying to clear out zombies by
himself is not a good strat.
The club was dumb to swap crowbar for, but
you can’t argue with his results.
Officer Kenneth and crew get distracted by
the commotion, and a ninja zombie attacks
them from behind.
Kenneth whacks the zombie off Luda, then gets
tackled into the fountain.
Ana snags the shotty and blind hipfires, making
an accurate hit on the zombie and saving Kenneth’s
life.
She must have had her lucky charms this morning.
I think you should give your shotgun back
to the cop now.
They hop into the elevator to get to high
ground, and get a warm welcome by the security
staff when the elevator opens.
The mall cops should have disabled the elevator.
You want to limit any chances that a zombie
could bump into the level 2 button, walk in,
and kill everyone.
I wouldn’t have given the guns up.
But that’s a hard situation to de-escalate.
Side note, not that they had options, but
revolvers are terrible in a zombie apocalypse.
They are slow to reload and have low capacity.
Same with shotguns.
Single stack pistols are better because they
are quicker to reload, but they also suffer
from low capacity.
If I was the security, I'd check them for
bite wounds and quarantine them.
Let me give an alternate take here, since
I tend to assume the more realistic zombies
like in 28 weeks later.
The shoot them in the head trope is probably
derived from the fact that the human body
can withstand a lot of non-critical hits.
Since zombies don’t feel pain and are in
full adrenaline rage mode, they will keep
coming until they receive a critical hit like
a headshot.
This doesn’t necessarily mean zombies can’t
be killed with non-headshots though.
I also think it’s funny that we’re always
told to destroy a zombie’s brain, but a
zombie is essentially a mindless killing machine.
I get the brain is a good target, I just think
it’s ironic.
On the news we also hear that Fort Pastor
is secure, with search and rescue teams searching
for survivors.
It’s not a real base, so who knows how far
away it is.
At this point, holding out and signaling from
the roof is their best option.
The survivors finally start clearing and locking
down the mall, putting up SOS signals, and
tossing the dead bodies off the roof.
They hear some gunshots coming from across
the street.
There’s another survivor, Andy, held up
in a gun store 4 or 500 yards away.
A military chopper flies by, but doesn’t
stop for them.
The chopper might not have seen them, but
it also might be full of survivors or low
on gas.
I’d have fired some rounds off into the
air to get it’s attention if I was Andy.
If they knew the direction of Fort Pastor,
they may be able to know if it’s headed
back to base or not.
If it’s flying away from the base, then
it should come back this way, if it doesn’t..
Maybe something bad happened.
The worst case scenario is that the chopper
was fleeing from the overrun base.
In the live report on the news a bit ago,
we saw them unloading a transport truck with
bloody survivors.
It’s possible they turned into zombies.
Everyone heads back inside for the night and
reflects on loved ones lost.
The next morning the rookie security kid goes
to do some routine tasks and make some coffee.
I would not use the elevator.
Way too risky.
You have no idea what’s on the other end
of those doors.
If a ninja zombie runs at you, good luck getting
the elevator doors to close in time.
Meanwhile Ana and crew are still locked up
by CJ.
Why did CJ lock them up on the first floor
when there are stores with gates on the second
floor, where it is way safer.
Outside, a couple wild boys in a shipping
truck are driving around the parking lot going
postal on the zombies.
Ana’s team wants to help, but CJ’s a stubborn
prick.
I get that bringing in strangers is dangerous,
but with your guns and numbers you can effectively
secure and quarantine them.
You have enough food and could use the help
killing zombies.
Michael and Kenneth jack the guns and flip
the script on CJ’s crew.
The outsiders spin the truck around and reverse
into the loading gate, smart move.
Andre and Michael run outside to help the
drivers and holy shat, they must be ex special
forces with how easily they are headshotting
everyone left and right under extreme stress
and pressure.
Whoah whoah, absolutely no way that lady in
the wheelbarrow is coming in.
I hope we aren’t going to entertain the
BS that the protagonists are oblivious to
what zombies are.
They really need to implement a decontamination
procedure to check all the new people for
the zombie virus.
The cop tries to leave to go find his brother
at Fort Pastor, despite the truckers saying
that everyone there is dead.
But Kenneth has a change of heart when he
sees poor Andy, stuck out there all by his
lonesome.
Jesus this guy has a bite too.
Nobody checked the newcomers out at all, this
is going to end badly.
This lady looks like a special mutant type
of zombie, like the bloater bile launcher
in video games.
As a nurse, or anyone with common sense, get
some PPE on and get your hands out of her
face and bodily fluids.
You wanna stick your fingers in her mouth
for a dental inspection too?
Ana dodges fate yet again.
After that, I'd take the gun from the security
kid.
I’m sorry, but if you have the only gun
and you run and leave everyone in danger,
you don’t deserve it.
No. shat.
Doesn’t take a doctor to figure that out.
Ana, that was literally what caused your husband
to die, you saw that exact thing happen in
the beginning.
Ana and Michael have a dispute about executing
whoever is bitten.
Killing anyone with an open wound is only
going to cause mass conflict, distrust, and
resentment which will lead to revenge killings.
The infection typically takes hours depending
on the wound.
All you have to do is lock anyone with an
open wound in a gated store.
If they turn into a zombie, blast them, if
not, you avoided murdering someone for no
reason.
The guy with the bite wound on his hand will
be zombified in hours.
Amputating his arm won’t work either.
Blood circulates through the body way too
fast.
A drug administered in the arm reaches the
brain within a few seconds.
The virus has already spread throughout his
entire body.
Even if it would stop the virus, field amputations
are incredibly lethal and hard to perform
correctly.
In the civil war, the mortality rate for amputations
was extremely low (high).
1/3rd of people died from the surgery, and
half of those people who lived through the
surgery, died from infection later.
I’d say they are under worse circumstances.
They have no medical equipment or supplies
beyond aspirin and bandaid, and Nurses aren’t
trained to perform amputations.
They really need to think about where they
are quarantining and executing people.
You’re getting their infectious fluids everywhere.
Blowing someone’s brains out on a perfectly
good bed or couch that someone could have
slept on is stupid.
And why not have Kenneth close the gate in
front of him.
Why lock himself in with someone infected.
If 1 thing gets tripped up, your dead.
If you aren’t paying attention, the dude
throws something at your head and attacks
you because he doesn’t want to die, the
gun misfires, etc.
You want at least 2 degrees of separation
between you and death.
Cool, now go check out Andre's wife who was
cut in an altercation with a zombie, and the
trucker’s leg that was injured from something.
The standoffishness would be alarming.
Especially considering what we know about
bites and her close call with the zombie.
Not checking in with each other to measure
each other’s conditions is a mistake.
I’ve mentioned before that the importance
of entertainment in the apocalypse is underestimated,
and I gotta say, the mall is a good choice
to fulfil this need.
Who’s who with a hunting rifle looks fun.
For some mysterious and unpredictable reason
the mall ran out of power, and nobody thought
to scavenge the generators earlier on.
Now they have to go into an uncleared, zombie
filled parking garage in darkness.
Good going guys.
Before they embark on their suicidal journey,
Kenneth shows Michael how to take the safety
off his gun, which is inspiring as hell.
I’m glad the guys I'm rolling out with don't
know how to use their guns.
Kenneth being a former Marine should have
conducted a weapons 101 training course in
their spare time, so when shat goes down they
actually know how to use the gun.
Shouldn’t have just fricked off for the
past few days huh.
It’s also worth pointing out that when fighting
in low light conditions, you never want to
have your light permanently on because it
gives your position away.
You want to use quick taps when assessing
and engaging areas or threats.
You also want to move along the wall to reduce
the areas a zombie could attack you from.
What the hell.
Now we have to deal with circ de soleil zombies.
All hell breaks loose and the securitas kid
dies a horrific death.
It’s hard to tell what is going on, but
it appears they made it into a gated gas station
in the underground parking garage of the mall.
That makes complete sense.
Kenneth runs out of ammo, which was stupid,
he should have brought spare ammo.
Thinking back, he racked his shotgun when
making his entrance.
This chambered a round, but also freed up
space in the tube.
He could have loaded another round in.
Depending on the shell, this gives him 5+1
capacity.
Whereas he only had 5.
So he only anticipated needing to fire 5 rounds,
optimistic.
This is why I don’t like shotguns, low capacity
and unless you’re jerry miculek with an
extended tube and a speed loader, you’re
gonna get stampeded before you can reload.
It’s a damn good thing CJ had a lighter
to set the gas on fire.
Luda’s childbirth doesn’t seem to be going
so well, I blame Andre for being a poor midwife.
That’s true love, I’d have capped my girlfriend
a long time ago.
The granny shows up for the baby shower, and
unloads on the zombie mom.
Andre doesn’t take this so well and blasts
Norma.
If I was the granny, seeing Andre’s mental
state and the zombie.
I’d have blasted him first, then the zombie.
Ana assesses that the granny wasn’t bitten,
so she won’t become a zombie.
Can you really know for sure, and do you really
want to just assume that with everything that’s
going on.
I know I don’t.
Double tap all of them, including the zombie
baby.
These recent events seemed to break the group's
morale on holding out in the mall until help
arrives.
The glaring issue here, is that the marina
is essentially in the heart of Milwaukee,
which has a population of 600,000 zombies.
You have to drive through all of that to get
to the boat, whereas with Horicon, the population
gets sparser as you get closer.
Secondly, the boat takes time to start up
and push off shore, which is a problem when
a hundred thousand zombies are sprinting at
you.
Thirdly, you don’t know if the boats were
jacked or destroyed in the chaos.
The islands aren’t a bad idea though.
You can easily eliminate all the zombies on
the island, fish for food, and you’re far
enough away from shore that other zombies
won’t know you’re there.
Who knows if these zombies can swim though,
if so, a few miles off shore might still be
dangerous.
If you were dead set on boating to an island
in the middle of the lake, at least drive
to a remote area of shoreline and row to the
island.
Rowing 5-10 miles isn’t difficult.
They have to do something though.
It's almost been a week, and the zombies haven’t
died or shown signs of deterioration from
dehydration.
For some reason, these zombies don’t seem
to have any physiological constraints.
That means they can’t stay in the mall and
outlast the zombies, they will just starve
to death.
I think they should try a different option
before going to either Horicon or the marina.
In both of those options, you have to leave
the comfort, security, and supply rich mall
to wade through thousands of zombies for a
utopia you don’t know even exists.
They should stay put, and implement a shape,
clear, hold, build military strategy.
Shape, means to identify the nature and strength
of the enemy threat in a given area.
After the outbreak, Ana hopped on the highway
and drove away from the city, she most likely
ended up in a more suburban area like Brookfield.
This is about a 5x5 mile area with a population
of roughly 30,000 people.
The number of zombies hanging out at their
mall looks to be around 5-10 thousand.
Clear, obviously means to eradicate the zombie
infestation.
This is the fun part, it’s like the Dead
Rising game or Dying Light, but more realistic.
Since the zombies can’t be killed by attrition,
it must be done with violence.
With 20-50 rounds of ammo per box, 6 boxes
high and 8 boxes across with 32 rows of ammo
shelf, that’s around 50,000 rounds of ammo.
If he’s got ammo in the back or any surplus
of 22lr ammo, that’s gonna be a lot higher.
22lr is probably the most efficient round
for this job, and if you have one of these
stacks lying around, you’re gonna be just
fine.
That’s over 125,000 rounds, just right there.
You could kill the zombie crowd in front of
the mall 25 times over, with just that stack.
A 22lr aimed down at the zombie heads from
the rooftop will definitely destroy the brain.
In some cases, the bullet has enough power
to penetrate the skull, but not enough to
exit out the back.
So the bullet just ricochets around inside
the skull turning the brain into soup.
I know Andy is getting hungry, but I don’t
recommend sipping the juice out of those coconuts.
A rifle round could be heard from a few miles
away, but with only 30,000 people within a
few miles of them, killing the zombies won’t
attract any more than that.
Personally, I’d save the ammo as much as
possible.
They should be able to kill a significant
amount of zombies with molotov cocktails or
homemade napalm using gas and styrofoam.
The mall is made of brick so it shouldn’t
be a problem, still wouldn’t hurt to have
some fire extinguishers and water nearby.
A dishonorable mention for the adrenaline
junkies would be the Crane Corps strategy
in the Great Wall movie.
I highly, highly don’t recommend this.
But you could use a pulley system to bait
the zombies over then repeatedly drop heavy
weights onto their heads.
Or just throw bricks like Kevin McCallister
in Home Alone.
Once you’ve eliminated close to the population
of the city, you can progress to the holding
phase.
Reinforce the security of the mall and the
gun store.
Close any gaps in your bases defenses.
Set up snare and noise maker traps for zombies.
Generally just ensure that you can maintain
your controlled territory now that the initial
threat is gone.
With the local threat identified, eliminated,
and your position reinforced, you can start
building out sustainability.
Set up clear systems for supply rationing,
animal traps, sewage disposal, firearms training
for all survivors, how and where to raid and
scavenge, as well as decontamination of newcomers
and people returning to the mall from raids.
I’m not sure how much food they have left,
how many animals they could trap, or how much
non-perishable food they could raid from nearby
stores.
Raiding is exceptionally dangerous too.
Since dogs are unappetizing to zombies, and
they’re a popular pet, there should be lots
of them available and eager to come to you
if you get hungry.
Yes it’s fricked up, but it is the apocalypse.
Your alternative is attempting that home grown
potato farm, or an even less appetizing option.
Food can be quite abundant if you just know
where to look.
I’m not saying it’s the first choice.
I’m saying it’s worth a shot if you’re
going to die anyways.
Cooking over 140 degrees should kill any pathogens,
which should make it safe to eat.
You’re going to want to order this meal
well, well done.
No pink.
I know I know, Prions and the Creutzfeldt–Jakob
disease.
But if you only eat muscle tissue you’ll
have less of a chance of getting infected.
And even if you do, the time from infection
to death is 30-50 years long.
I’d say that’s worth it when your only
other option is starving in 3-5 months.
I still think driving out to Horicon is the
next move.
Hunting wildlife in the open is far less dangerous
than raiding houses and stores.
You’re also less likely to come across deranged
or malicious survivors.
At least now you have a fallback base at the
mall if Horicon or the marina is swarmed with
zombies.
If you want to take back the world and start
repopulating it: shape, clear, hold, build,
repeat is your best option.
There are enough guns and ammo in each city
across America to kill all the residents many
multiple times over, so removing the zombies
shouldn’t be too tall of an order.
With our protagonists crippled morale, they
outfit the war busses to head for the marina
in a last ditch suicidal attempt at salvation.
Even though we would have thinned the zombie
herd out, it’s still a good idea to uparmor
and upgun your vehicles.
In the mall crew’s case, there are still
around 10 thousand zombies outside.
They won’t have to run through all 10 thousand,
just a slice of them.
They are on the right track with the snow
plow, but it needs to be pointier.
You want to avoid zombies piling up in front
as much as possible, and snow plows aren’t
meant for piercing as much as pushing.
The plow should be low enough to the ground
that zombies can’t fall underneath the bus
and muck the tires up or reduce the bus's
traction on the road.
Likewise, welding skirts around the side of
the bus to prevent zombies from falling down
in front of the rear tires is also important.
Not as extreme as this, but you get the point.
It is a colossal mistake to weld pieces of
metal to the sides of the busses.
All they are doing is giving zombies something
to grab a hold of.
The chainsaw idea is cool, but you wouldn’t
need them if you didn’t create handholds
for zombies to climb onto the bus in the first
place.
Chainsawing zombies is going to be spitting
infectious blood up everywhere.
The additional lights are good, because with
the power grid out, it’s going to be dark
as shat at night.
Hopefully you don’t have to drive at night,
but it’s better to be prepared for it.
Barbed wire on the roof is better than nothing,
but it’s not going to slow the zombies down
much at all.
shat, zombies would probably grab onto it
as another handhold.
Meanwhile, Andy is getting hungry over there.
He’s a skinny fella, but he’ll last 5
more days.
There won’t be any severe muscle atrophy,
and he’s not going to be a weak cripple
by the time they make their escape to the
marina.
There is no point in risking the biscuit to
get him a sammy right now.
Andy is about 4-5 hundred meters away at least,
and surrounded by zombies.
Carrying food over with an RC car sounds good,
but cheap store bought ones only have a couple
hundred feet of signal.
A potato gun also sounds good, but it’d
have to be extremely powerful.
DIY ones only have a range of 50-100 yards
or so.
My vote is to kill all the zombies then go
pick him up.
Instead, they send the dog over with food,
which surprisingly works.
The problem is the ground level pickup.
Andy screws up and gets zombified because
he didn’t shut the door quick enough or
have his gun ready to blast the nearby zombies.
Nicole goes completely insane and drives the
truck over to Andy’s gun store to rescue
her dog.
This is a mind blowing level of stupidity.
Dog’s are completely ignored by zombies,
you literally saw Chip walk through the entire
horde, he will be fine.
She didn’t even know Andy was bit when she
drove over there.
Everything was going according to plan as
far as she knew, and she still freaked.
Now she’s stuck in a closet with Andy trying
to kill her, causing the mall crew to attempt
a hasty rescue, even though abandoning her
dumb ass is also a perfectly good option.
Their new plan is to use the sewer system.
On the approach to the sewers there is a self-locking
fire door, and they need someone to be ready
to open it when they come back.
Of all people, Steve is enlisted for this
vital job.
Steve would be better placed in the coffee
shop, he will 100% screw you over.
Why not have Ana, Glen, or Monica do it?
The rescue team navigates the sewer system
to get close to the gun store, but they end
up having to pop out in the middle of the
street filled with zombies to make a run for
the store.
Apparently nobody thought to stop by one of
the mall stores and throw on a leather jacket
and gloves to protect against bites.
Hell, most of them are just rocking tank tops.
Instead of the sewer approach, I'd have driven
one of the busses up to the shipping truck
driver door, climbed over to the store, hopped
through the gate, killed Andy, thrown Nicole
off the roof, then killed all the zombies
and headed back to the mall.
If they are going to use the sewer route where
they have to traverse open ground filled with
zombies, I'd have tried employing a form of
zombie camouflage.
It sounds like a cheesy gag in a crappy horror
movie, but if you think about it, it could
work.
How do zombies differentiate between humans
and other zombies?
It has to be based on a mix of scent, sound,
motion, and behavior.
If you can spill some zombie guts on your
clothes, make awful moaning noises, and work
a limp, you might be able to fool the zombies.
It would at least buy them some time.
You could also try it in a situation where
you are trapped by a zombie horde, it’s
better than dying.
I don’t know how nobody died.
The crew finds the zombified Andy, and Kenneth
gives him the 870 police special.
Everybody reloads their guns and runs back
outside to the sewer so they can get back
to the mall.
What’s the rush?
Obviously this building is secure, just catch
some z’s, kill all the zombies in the morning,
then head back to the mall.
If you’re going to run back outside right
now, at least grab some AR15’s.
No competent gun store won’t have them stocked.
Much higher capacity, much quicker to reload,
easy manual of arms, and soft recoil.
Perfect for rapid accurate headshots.
At minimum, ditch the revolvers for double-stack
magazine fed pistols.
Reloading is when you are most vulnerable.
So I'd be tempted to roll out like Noah MacManus
or Neo.
Don’t need to reload if you have more guns.
They scramble into the sewer, and Tucker falls
breaking his leg.
CJ drags while tucker shoots, but there’s
too many of them.
Whaddya know, Steve screws them over by leaving
the door shut and locked, luckily Ana opens
it before they get overrun.
Nobody is able to get the doors shut so the
zombies come pouring into the mall.
Well, now the marina or Horicon are your only
options since your poor decisions cost you
the mall.
They scream for everyone to get to the elevators
and to the garage so they can bust out in
their war busses.
I hope nobody was in the bathroom while this
all went down.
I take that back, I hope Steve was in the
bathroom.
Nope, Steve was by the bus with the keys.
That scumbag was probably trying to take off
without everyone.
I would have knee-capped him and left his
ass.
The busses get bogged down in the horde, probably
because the snowplow isn’t diverting the
zombies well enough.
CJ comes in with the propane tank bomb to
thin’em out a bit.
That was really fricking cool.
I'm glad they used flare with the propane
tank, shooting it without the flare as an
ignition source wouldn’t cause it to explode.
And it’d be harder to find it in the horde
of zombies.
They peel out and start making their way to
the marina.
One zombie managed to hang onto the bus though.
Yah, attaching railings all over the bus wasn’t
a good idea.
Monica shouts to drive faster, which is a
terrible idea.
Yes you want to drive fast enough that the
zombie hordes can’t surround you, but you
don’t want to go too fast and wreck your
only means of survival.
Michael’s chainsaw idea wouldn’t have
been necessary if they didn’t create zombie
hand holds.
It wasn’t good in theory, and it’s especially
not good in practice in a rowdy bus.
Kenneth’s panic driving sends the bus into
a roll.
Luckily Michael see’s this in time and backs
up to rescue them.
Steve leaves Kenneth hanging and gets attacked
by the zombie holding onto the bus.
How did Glen die?
He chainsawed Monica and the bus flipped.
He could’ve banged his head off of something,
but you don’t know if he was just knocked
out or dead.
Hope they took a pulse on him to make sure.
It’d suck if he woke up in the bus alone
with everyone gone.
Ana goes back for Steve's body to grab the
keys to the boat.
Why on Earth did they leave the most important
item of their mission in Steve’s hands?
And why was nobody aware that Steve had the
keys.
Everyone should know who the key-bearer was
in case they get killed.
I also hope you guys got an exact location
and description of his boat.
They narrowly escape and make it to the marina
but they are already getting swarmed.
The timing is going to be tight getting off
shore in time.
CJ buys them some time by making a last stand
and nuking them with another propane bomb.
Michael stops everyone to tell them he got
bit back when Ana went for the keys.
Dude, not a good time.
You have hours until you’re a zombie based
on how long it took Frank to zombify.
Just get in the boat and we’ll deal with
you later, or push us off and make a last
stand like CJ.
The zombies just stand around and wait for
Michael and the group to say their heartfelt
goodbyes before he kills himself.
The rest of the survivors escape and flee
to the island in the lake.
Stupidly, they parked the boat and ran onto
the island without checking it out first.
They should have coasted around the perimeter
of the island, and killed as many as possible
from a distance.
There should only be hundreds of people on
the island, they easily could have killed
them all, but instead ran ashore and got overrun.
The movie ends.
Let’s see who would have lived, and who
would have died.
The infection spread extremely fast and took
everyone by surprise.
Luis was unsavable.
They got lucky that the mall was empty and
already locked up, but really any high ground
with access to water should have worked.
Realistically, all the zombies should have
died from dehydration within a week.
So nobody else would’ve died.
Unfortunately, these zombies aren’t affected
by this.
Luda got infected, as well as the big lady
and Frank.
They were all unsavable.
Not securing the generators when they had
power on was stupid.
This forced them to find it in the dark parking
garage filled with zombies, which led to Bart’s
unnecessary death via ninja zombies.
They should have kept a closer eye on Luda
and Andre.
Letting people go off on their own where you
can’t check their condition was a bad call.
I don’t think Andre would have taken his
wife and babies execution easily though, and
he likely would have died or been killed by
the others in a confrontation anyways.
Norma should have shot Andre before Luda after
seeing his mental state.
Andy should have killed all the zombies near
the doggy door before picking up the food,
ensuring his survival.
After that snack, the mall crew and Andy easily
could have killed off all the zombies in the
area with the ammo and weapons available,
then brought Andy back to the mall before
heading off to the marina.
Nicole was an idiot and drove over there,
so they needed to rescue her too, I guess.
Once they got there, they should have stayed,
used the ammo to kill all the zombies, then
headed back to the mall in the morning.
This would have saved Tucker’s life.
Using Steve to guard the sewer door was idiotic
and the delay before Ana opened the door enabled
the zombies to breach the mall, forcing them
to leave without preparing.
If they didn’t add handholds to the busses,
there wouldn’t be zombies they needed to
chainsaw off, and Glen wouldn’t be in the
position to accidentally saw Monica in half.
This event arguably caused Kenneth to crash,
leading to Steve, Glen, and Michael’s deaths.
The marina was a bad option because getting
off shore is almost impossible without being
overrun.
It was almost inevitable that CJ or someone
would have had to sacrifice themself to stem
the tide of zombies.
If they had gone to a remote area and rowed
to the island or to Horicon, this wouldn’t
have been the case.
They should have rowed around the island,
picking off the zombies before heading ashore.
There shouldn’t be more than a couple hundred
zombies to kill.
Kenneth, Ana, Terry, and Nicole, all would’ve
lived.
The dog chip was never in danger, so he’s
doin just fine.
I think we could have beat the Zombie Horde
in Dawn of the Dead.
Thanks for watching, and remember, all you
need to survive a realistic zombie apocalypse
is some shelter and a pack of San Pellegrino.